Theology sheds light on human reality.
In other words, theology is not a matter,
I mean, it's not a matter of politics,
or society, or anything like that,
because it is the study of the mystery of God.
Ultimately, that's it, right? Theos, which means God,
and logia, well, yes, wisdom about God, the mystery of God,
which is an unfathomable mystery,
one will only learn something very minimal, yes.
And there are things that it's better not to question too much
because one won't find humanly speaking answers.
But yes, through theology, human realities are illuminated.
Those human realities are concrete realities
that one encounters in the community,
whether they are personal or communal within that context,
or whether they are at a much broader level,
which is a social level.
So, in that line of thought, I believe that precisely
Jesus also, his theology was not just to teach the disciples,
you see, God is handsome, God is fat,
God is skinny, God is cute,
he never taught them that, never.
The Gospel does not show us that, it does not show us that
What does the person of Jesus show us? A constant action,
illuminated from the mystery of God.
We follow Jesus, not the ideology of Jesus,
we follow Jesus who did a work, a mission
that connected with the most marginalized of his time,
children, womens,
he saw social realities, he saw injustice,
he denounced it and all that.
So, through that same channel, one also finds answers
so that theology doesn't remain as something distant,
I mean, something elevated,
something that doesn't have a proper foundation,
but it helps one to not let it just be a
beautiful study, but to apply it,
to apply it more to the context,
in this specific case of Jordan.